Excercises

You are asked to write and execute appropriate commands in SQL language to answer the following questions:

1. Display a list of last and first names of actors whose last name starts with 'K'. The list should be sorted alphabetically by last name.

2. Display a list with the title and year of production of movies that were produced between 1990 and 2007. The list should be sorted by year of production in descending order.

3. Display a list with the movie title, last name and first name of the director for all movies with a country of production in Greece (Greece code 'GRC'). The list should be sorted alphabetically by the last name of the directors.

4. Display a list with the title and year of production of the films directed by the director with the last name 'Sakellarios'

5. Display a list of the titles and year of production of the movies in which the actor named 'Eastwood' has starred

6. Show the last name and first name of the main characters of the movie called 'Amelie'

7. Count the number of movies available on 'DVD'.

8. Find the total number of copies (of all movies) available on 'DVD'.

9. Display the price of the most expensive 'DVD'.

10. Find the total value of all copies (all movies) available on 'BLU RAY'.

11. Display a list of the directors' names and the number of films each has directed.

12. Find the number of movies the actor with the last name 'Papagiannopoulos' has starred in.

13. Display a list with the last name and first name of actors who have starred in films not produced in Greece (Greece code 'GRC').

14. Display a list of the titles of the films in which the actors with the last names 'Kourkoulos' and 'Karezi' have co-starred respectively. Each movie title should appear only once in the directory.

15. Display a list of the titles of the films in which the actress named 'Karezi' starred and in which the actor named 'Kourkoulos' did not.

16. Display a list of movie titles that belong to both the 'Comedy' category and the 'Emotional' category. Each movie title should appear only once in the directory.

17. Display a list with the category and number of movies per category. ONLY categories for which there are at least 5 movies should appear in the list.

18. Display a list of the directors' names and the number of films each has directed. The list should also include the names of directors for whom there are no films.

19. Delete the “Biography” category from the database.

20. Update the price of all DVD copies of the movie titled “Amelie”. The new price is 70 euros for each copy on DVD.

